# What I've Learned Through the Capstone
## Preconceptions of Personal Projects 
Computer Science culture, especially within College / University, has a certain idea when it comes to personal projects. Often completed during 24-48 hour long hackathon, I always had the impression that personal projects could only really be completed in coffee-crazed marathon coding sessions. I tried going to a few hackathons but always left disappointed that I could not finish a project. Inevitably, something would go wrong, or my brain would cease to function, but regardless, I would leave empty-handed, heavy-hearted, and overall less confident that I had when I entered. Because of that, I was hesitant to go through a personal project on the level of a capstone because going in, I felt like the only thing I would get out of it was a deep sense of inadequacy. 

## The Struggles
Capstones are largely self-motivated, I've come to realize. We all start with amazing ideas that we are extremely passionate about. Students in my capstone class would talk animatedly about their projects, excited about the possiblity of what they could achieve. However, we began to procrastinate our capstones. Those ideas that we once found exciting became extremely daunting. It was like climbing a mountain. From the distance, the adventure of it is intoxicating, but as you get closer, craning your head upwards to look at the top, the thought of climbing that mountain seems slightly less possible, slightly less feasible. So instead of figuring out the first place to plant our feet, we instead shuffled them from side to side, slicing off bits from our capstone to make them more feasible. I used to consider this to be a failure--that by simplifying my idea, I admitted that I could not do something. Perhaps this is more of a paradigm shift than anything else, but this capstone helped me to understand that the act of simplifying an idea doesn't lead to failure. The true failure comes with not finishing. With not making that first step. Simplifying things into more managable tasks is a skill, and the capstone certainly exercised it. 

## Personal Coding Style
By going through the capstone process, I found a format for personal projects that I enjoy infinitely more. I prefer longer projects where I get to iterate over my design, not because of sheer desperation, but from an interest to explore the problem from a different angle. I prefer undergoing projects where I have the time to make mistakes and to learn from them, rather than become harried by the onslaught of the clock. By going through a rigorous yet open-ended project, I learned that I prefer working in short bursts over a long period of time. Having the time built in to take a break, to take my mind off of things to look at them in a new angle, works for me. It may not be the most ideal working style, nor may it be the most common, but it was the style that enabled me to get through the capstone process. 

## Overall
The capstone was a process that made me feel more confident in my coding skills, while also showing me that there is so much to learn out there. I don't think I'll ever feel like an experienced coder, but I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. Being exposed to the possibilities of CS makes it even more exciting, and I'm even more eager to spend more time in the trenches, working with new technologies that I find to be exciting. 
